= TestXml

== DESCRIPTION

TestXml is a small extension for testing XML/HTML. Extending RSpec and TestUnit it makes asserting and comparing XML snippets easy, and is especially helpful for testing RESTful web services and their XML representations.


== FEATURES

* runs with RSpec2, Test::Unit, MiniTest and Cucumber
* Ruby 1.8 and 1.9
* test XML structure and content


== INSTALL

  gem install test_xml


== EXAMPLES

=== Test::Unit and MiniTest

  def test_item_representation
    assert_xml_equal "<item><id>1</id></item>", @item.to_xml
  end

=== RSpec

  it "should contain the id" do
    @item.to_xml.should equal_xml(<<-XML)
      <item>
        <id>1</id>
      </item>
    XML
  end

=== Cucumber

  Scenario:
    When I post some data
    Then the response should match the following xml
    """
      <transaction>
        <status>success</status>
        <id/>
        <order_id/>
      </transaction>
    """

== USAGE:

=== RSpec

In your spec_helper.rb

  require 'test_xml/spec'

And in the actual spec, use these matchers:

* equal_xml
* contain_xml
* equal_xml_structure
* contain_xml_structure

=== Test::Unit

In the test_helper.rb

  require 'test_xml/test_unit'

In your test file, use these matchers:

* assert_xml_equal
* assert_xml_contain
* assert_xml_structure_equal
* assert_xml_structure_contain

Negative assertions are available as <tt>assert_not_*</tt>.

=== MiniTest

In the test_helper.rb

  require 'test_xml/mini_test'

Check the Test::Unit section for available assertions.

=== Cucumber

In the features/env.rb

  require 'test_xml'
  require 'test_xml/spec'
  World(TestXml::Spec)

In your steps file e.g. features/step_definitions/xml_steps.rb add this step:
  
  Then /^the response should match the following xml$/ do |xml|
    response.body.should equal_xml(xml)
  end

== ASSERTIONS

=== XML is Equal

Elements, attributes and text nodes are all the same

=== XML Contains

The XML contains the given structure. Checks ancestral relationships, elements, attributes and text nodes <b>starting from and including the root node</b>.

For example, given this XML:

  <a>
    <b><c>Cee</c></b>
    <d>Dee</b>
  </a>

This will fail: 

  <b><c>Cee</c></b>

as +b+ is not the root node. The check must be written as: 

  <a>
    <b><c>Cee</c></b>
  </a>

=== XML Structure is Equal

Like XML is equal, but ignores attributes and text nodes

=== XML Structure Contains

Like XML contains, but ignores attributes and text nodes

== REQUIREMENTS

* nokogiri

== Many Thanks

{Nick Sutterer}[http://github.com/apotonick] thank you for bringing RSpec 2, Ruby 1.9.2 and MiniTest! You revived the gem! :)

== LICENSE

Copyright © 2010-2011, Pavel Gabriel

Released under the MIT License. 
